So you might notice that we have some
other data in our keys that we might
wanna, for example, list out the posts,
but sort them by this timestamp.
So if we also want to sort just
based on username, which is what
we can currently do, so if I want to sort,
for example by a particular username,
if we had multiple users, this would
be a little bit better of an example.
But I want to get all of the posts that
I've written, I can stick my username
in there and then this ought to just
list out everything that I've written.
Or sorry, post, sorry, not user.
So now this query lists out all
of the posts that I've made.
But if I wanna list out the posts made
by everyone based on the timestamp,
then this key structure isn't gonna work.
So what we can do instead now is builds a
different way of inserting our documents,
so every time we insert a new post,
we can insert a second key.
That's gonna help us index into here.
Right, so here's an example of
what that might look like, so
this is a little program that
we can use to insert a document.
So here I'm just using an ID
that's based on some entropy.
And when we insert the post, we do it like
normal with the post in the username key,
but we also have a new key right here.
So I think for the example that I
wanna create we'll swap the order of
the timestamp and the username so
that we can list all of the posts across
the entire database by timestamp.
This is the kind of thing that you get for
free with relational databases.
So this is not the best example, because
you could just use one of those, but
if you have to build the code
that works in the browser, well,
you don't have any of that, so
you have to build it yourself.
So, here's how to do that.
All right, so why don't I make a new
directory, I'll call it posts,
and we can build a couple of
Command-Line tools that are gonna
insert new users and
insert posts written by those users, and
then we can build up some different kinds
of queries based on this key structure.
All right, so the first thing we need
to do is make a maybe user add method,
we'll require level like normal
Instantiate to post.db, we'll call it.
And now we can call db.put,
because with a user, maybe we don't have
secondary indexes for users quite yet.
So I'm just going to do user,
and then I'm going to get the name
from Command-Line argument.
And this time I'm gonna remember to
turn on the value encoding of json.
So that's what those object
objects strings were.
In case you ever see those, that's why.
Okay, so
we don't really need much other data.
I guess I could put like
a bio something in here, but
I'm just gonna use an empty object for
the value, because it's not too important.
So here's our basic code to add a user.
All right, so very simple.
Let's add a few users now, so substack,
tuxkitty, that's my cat in.
dogdoggerson.
Any other good names?
Anybody on the chat in person?
Doggy McDoggerton?
doggymcdoggerton, often confused for
dogdoggerson, I'm sure.
Anyways, that's pretty good.
Okay, so we have our user ad script.
Why don't we go ahead and build a little
script that's now gonna dump all of
the users, just pretty much just like
the other example, but I think it's
good to repeat this kind of, whereas
those groups into your brain, I hope so.
I'll call this one userlist.js, maybe
userls like that, no, I like list better,
that's good.
Okay, so, I'm just gonna copy
the useradd code, cuz it does the setup,
which we want to be the same.
But now,
we're gonna do a db.create ReadStream now,
and we're gonna use that
to2 to consume that stream.
We could also have additional command
line arguments to provide things like
the greater than, less than keys, but
I'm just gonna dump everything
with this example, I think.
So the greater than key is
just going to be user, and
the less than is gonna be user tilde,
okay?
And then we need to consume that.
So here's how we can consume that stream.
And then make sure to call next.
Okay, that's just pretty much
the same thing that we did before.
Here we go.
So here's all of our users.
I can format this a little more nicely so
that maybe we don't, we can just
pull out the user part of the key.
That would be a good thing to do.
So, row.key.split on our
delimiter exclamation mark 1,
because it goes user, exclamation mark,
and then the user name.
If you're uncomfortable about using all
of these loose delimiters in your code,
there's a module called bytewise that's
kind of, it's a bit slower, but it does
do this kind of, it does delimiters
a bit more intelligently for you.
But all of the same ideas about
lexicographic ordering apply, and
it adds additional kinds of type
comparisons on top of that.
I'm not gonna go into it much,
because I don't use is too often, but
it's good to know about.
It's called bytewise on NPM,
in case you want to look it up.
All right, so I think now our user list,
right just prints out the usernames,
sorted, which is nice.